and this is why i'm digging into this
scara because i think that like
i know this sounds weird i think you are
attractive enough for them
and i think the real sad thing is that
it is your belief that you're not
attractive enough for them
that is actually like becoming the
self-fulfilling prophecy
of like the current romantic
state that you're in
hello scarab hello hello okay you seem
fine to me bro
so testing one two three still am i
delayed
fixed okay so little story chat
a long time ago when dr k was a tiny
little
new streamer i one day experienced lag
on stream and i talked to this
this person named felix felix xqc
we were lagging on stream and then felix
was like you know what
you know what i do to not lag on stream
i have two internets that run to my
house
and i was like that's crazy you have two
internet connections and he's like yeah
so we decided to get a second internet
connection and we just swapped them
so hopefully that's fixed anyway i think
um thanks for being patient scar i
really appreciate it man
it's no problem like i have literally
like all day
i've been looking forward to this talk
for a while oh really what what have you
been
looking forward to i think it's that
i hear a lot of people speak highly of
you
i watch stuff that you do and i think
that you're kind
of a very interesting person especially
in this
in this space and so uh
i think it's something that it's like a
very unique
you know i guess moment for me to be
able to
talk to you sure well i i hope you get
something out of it man
oh i'm sure i will um is there something
in particular that you were thinking
about talking about
um well i have a bunch of things i think
sure
there's a lot of things that are easy
and some things that could be like a
little bit harder
but the easiest things might be like the
problems you have generally streaming
for such a long period of time
uh stuff about like um you know
self-fulfillment uh about like creative
and uh like i guess finding a creative
outlet
uh especially if your job or your
doesn't provide that
yeah um i have i and on that same note
like maybe the idea of happiness
and satisfaction both as a long and
short term
uh also uh maybe some stuff to deal with
either
with uh the fear of failure okay and
uh how and this is something that's
maybe the overall thing is like i
i saw you had to talk with h june and
you guys talked about
uh low empathy and um
a lot of times i feel like uh
that's common for me as well
where but rather than focusing on the
lower empathy part which is something
that i feel like
is is okay and i feel more
like talking more on the sides of like
being highly logical
and how that's like kind of a detriment
toward
maybe pushing yourself for your goals
oh that sounds really interesting to me
so uh yeah any of those that you're
interested in like
i am kind of able to talk on any of
those topics
yeah so that's that's really great um
scar
and i'm you know i know i know you had
nightmares about
being late and and maybe not sure what
you wanted to talk about but i i think
that that's like so
let me just repeat back what i heard so
like i think a lot of this comes with
what i would call kind of stream or
burnout
this unfortunately or fortunately
depending on how on you
how you look at it i think is something
that we've had to become experts in
with our um you know supporting content
creators on twitch like which we like
now do as an organization
but you know there's a lot of stuff we
can certainly i think i've learned a ton
um about you know this like kind of like
tension between
doing what works and following the
metrics
and like giving you know the internet
what it wants
versus doing work that you find like
creatively fulfilling but is risky
uh okay so on that end i feel like i've
already
fully accepted that i don't give a [ __ ]
about doing
what the internet wants um
as long as i understand i'm doing it
that way yep
that's really good so that's my sense
yeah it makes a lot of sense i think the
key thing there is that your
understanding of why you're doing what
you're doing
so so this is this is where like i think
a lot about making bad decisions with
eyes wide open
which sometimes when i talk to my yeah
so on that subject is that always a good
thing
so for instance if i know something is
absolutely bad for me
and bad for my brand and bad for my
stream but i still do it anyways
does that make is that a problem even if
you're i if you understand
your eyes wide open about it you
acknowledge that you're doing the
problem
but you still keep doing it is that any
better than
full ignorance what is better
what do you mean by better well like
like
is it just like a coping mechanism i
should i should say like am i just
rationalizing myself by because i can
logic my way
it out of like any situation like i'm
just rationalizing that like it's okay
to be bad at to not do what's correct
or not do what's good for my specific
situation
because i don't feel like it
okay so i i think we're going to talk
about logic
versus emotions and what drives your
actions
and rationalization and i think it's all
good it'll scar it all winds up in the
same place
because even if we talk about like
creative fulfillment like even your
question
is one of logic right you're like okay
let's think about it logically like even
if i know
that something is like if i say screw
what the internet wants and i'm going to
make what i want to do like that's a
logical question is that okay
right it's sort of like a philosophical
and logical question which i think
goes back to your your point about low
empathy versus becoming reliant on logic
because i don't think i mean just some
of the stuff i you know i've talked to
some people who i think
know you and i don't based on what they
say i don't think you have low empathy
at all i think you
you actually at least in terms of the
way that they speak about you now i
wonder if it's cognitive empathy and i'd
be really curious about what that
reaction was that you just had
i i think it's because
they don't talk to me a lot
okay i think when they interact with me
the me i put out in that scenario is
like
fully on all the time
in in the sense that i try to
always be very very like
scarra if they talk to you or what would
they discover
i feel like um there's just a lot of uh
or there's a there's some moments where
i feel like
uh i guess
um i guess it wouldn't align with with
what they think i sure like
because whenever i interact with people
especially with my friends i tend to
value their time
and the conversation very highly and
although i will make
mistakes here and there like recently
i've made one
there will be situations where like i
tend to like try to think ahead of time
and try to make it so that like when
they do meet me or interact with me like
they always
take away with that was a good moment
you know
because that's like what i try to do
with my friends i feel like that's just
really normal with everyone right
[Music]
but um for me to like a larger extent
it's like well
i value those moments quite highly
because those are the things i look
forward to
a lot of times when you're in the
streaming thing it's very routine
especially during covet right you're not
going out uh like i i'm not seeing
anyone
i'm not really like you know actively
looking and so a lot of my day by day is
actively with my friends especially with
these kind of bubble that i'm
in and that i've created or somewhat
been a part of with otb
that like realistically i never need to
collab with anyone outside of otb
um just on a sustainable level like i it
never needs to happen
because the group is so large at this
point that only collaborating within my
bubble
is enough to to like solidify my brand
my future
as well as like kara put myself and keep
myself like near the top
right not at the very very top right
because i think at
that level you'd have to lug with wick
it up right and go to like alternatives
where you go toward
uh like collaborating with a bunch of
different people yeah what's up
we're going to stop you there for a
second sorry to interrupt
you slipped away from me so you said
that you know
i i mentioned that i've talked to some
people who have who have found you to be
very
empathic and supportive you mentioned
that those are moments that you really
look forward to in value
and then you also said that like the
reason they think that way about me is
because they don't spend enough time
with me
yes i think i tend to be very objective
about my
faults sure i can kind of now look
at the mirror i'm gonna and yeah so when
you look in the mirror what do you see
uh a person is trying to work on it
work on what uh empathy
that's something that was like kind of a
goal for me in the last two years
can you help me understand that um
i think it's common when you meet
someone who's
very logical to interact with people who
are more emotional
that for instance when you approach a
problem and they approach you with a
problem
let's say their problem is that um
like they feel really bad that uh
they're
not getting enough viewers this is just
random problem okay
and immediately my mind thinks like okay
well what can i do to get more viewers i
can collab with these people
they can start streaming at these times
they can start doing this or this
this or this and like all they want is
like durant
essentially and it's been like uh
a common i feel like this is common for
a lot of people growing pain to be like
okay well
understand that like being able to
immediately understand that that's what
they're looking to do
is something that takes work to some
extent or yeah
and then when you fit when you are not
understanding of that uh
it can cause problems i feel like that's
like a very common
uh point where it's like okay well
that's
so i'm i'm hearing that you kind of
started working on it two years ago
yeah i'm hearing that your instinctual
response
is to try to fix things for them yes and
that you discovered and are working on
trying to not fix things for people when
what they really want you to do is
listen
yeah can you tell me what things were
like
before two years
i didn't interact with many people
i think the biggest thing is when i went
from oh
i guess like when i went from pro play
or i should say even before then i went
from like high school to college and i
left all my high school friends okay
so in college all i did was play video
games like that's it
so like league of legends was and i got
good at it good enough to go pro
but the thing is like i really only have
like one or two friends
on campus and like i would literally
spend my entire life
grinding the game um and then like i
left
them don't really talk to any but two
college friends anymore i went to
la so like essentially i had no friend
and so going from that moment where like
i had no friends into like meeting
dignitas people being friends with them
leaving that and still having to make
new friends it was kind of a situation
where
like yeah before those two or three
years like i just didn't talk to people
so when i started otv to like partially
uh hang out with people i thought were
cool and make content together and find
new friends
like that's i didn't have to go through
i guess some of the growing pains i
should have earlier
if you had more friends
how did it feel to not have many friends
like back in college and
uh honestly i didn't really care
because i think i was so addicted to
games
uh like it sucked sometimes where i was
like oh well you know it's not a
i i guess this is one of the things
where before then
i would like kind of logic it out and
rationalize that like
i didn't need to meet new people because
like for me it was like okay if i stay
inside
and i raid world of warcraft or i play
league of legends with my friends like
i'm always going to get like a an 8 of
10 experience for the night like i'm
going to be it's going to be sick
but i go out to drink or i go with my
friends like sometimes like the people
at me are kind of weird
like the situation is kind of lame and
like maybe the average is like a 6.5
or like a seven so like just from my
extent because at the at that point i
didn't value like new experiences very
highly
i was just like ah it's not worth it for
me because like the averages are just so
different
you know it's clear like if i just think
about it like mathematically
like i should just stay in and play
games um that's because
my evaluation in the experiences was not
worth much but
later i learned that it was worth
everything how did you learn that
uh get growing older you tend to
learn that new experiences are kind of
the way to find what you want and the
way to find
i guess grow and i think it's like
everyone knows that
they might not know know that but
they've heard people like repeat the
words even if they don't
actually how did you get to know know
that
i got a lot of new experiences so when i
played
professional play i didn't realize at
the time but
i visited multiple countries
like i went to multiple different places
experienced a lot of different food a
lot of different cultures a lot of
different people
got to meet great
people which i feel like are amazing and
are super
like funny or super like talented at
what they do
and i realized that like meeting new
people is
and having those new experiences were
things that shaped
my life so in hindsight i look back on
my
like kind of formative years when it
comes to early league of legends as like
league of legends actually made me the
person who i am
for all the good and bad
and and who did it who did league of
legends create
who is the person you are i
think uh a person
who
uh i think when i was younger i used to
always chase happy
and so i'll put it this way and this is
i i think everyone does this right this
pursuit happiness is a [ __ ] movie
right but
um when i was given those early forms in
middle school where they're what is your
future profession and you write down
your future profession
i was a little kid i wrote down happy
and i
to this day still think that small
version of me was still way smarter than
who i am now
and i think i've been trying to chase
what that means
and how that like translates
to what i do for a long time and i
realized that like
like league made me happy working with
people to a goal
made me very [ __ ] happy to the point
where like i
like not only was it um fulfilling on a
day by day it was also creatively
fulfilling as well because i feel like
team
camadri brutalized that or whatever
like being able to work together with
people who are very talented
is like um the feeling can't be measured
especially when you're looking to
compete
at the top level at least in the top of
north america right
um and so like through like that's how i
kind of learned what makes me happy both
on the short term and
as throughout the as the year stretched
later and later
i learned satisfaction which is like i
guess my definition for like long-term
happiness
and how that kind of works together
and so lee kind of formed my idea
of what happiness and satisfaction are
yeah so one way i'm going to just kind
of like explain how i understand it
so i think that a lot of times when we
think about short-term happiness it's an
emotion
so our mind is capable of producing
emotions like joy
sadness fun enjoyment relaxation
and then there's almost like a spiritual
dimension of happiness which is not
emotional in nature
so this is the axis of sukkah which
means like
peace or contentment and which means
suffering
and so sometimes like this can be
confusing because people sort of equate
suffering with sadness but if you ever
listen to sad music
like you kind of enjoy it and like why
do we
listen to sad music why do we watch sad
movies because we in those moments we
feel negative emotions
but there's like a peace or joy or
contentment which implies that actually
that the axes
like the spiritual axis of sukkah and
dukkha or contentment and suffering
is independent of the axis of emotion
and that emotions tend to fluctuate
relatively easily from day to day but
what you call
satisfaction i think is on that other
axis
of sukhanduk it's sort of a more cosmic
sense of contentment
i don't know if i'd relate cosmic
contentment
and put those words together but i do
understand the general gist of what
you're talking about and i agree
yeah um and like i still remember like
there were like i remember
my memory is really bad of just my past
i tend to be
very um just forgetful like long-term
memory rise but i remember moments in my
life where i was like
this determined something important so
like
i remember way back in middle school
when i first learned how to play tennis
i had a private instructor
and we were playing tennis and i would
and and
uh i was playing
and for me i was always just like i just
want to play
and he was trying to instill some sort
of competitive spirit in me and he just
asked like
when you play is it more fun to win or
lose
do you enjoy it more when you win or
enjoy more when you lose
and that's who my young little brain
like kind of flicked on and i was like
i do like winning you know i feel like
at some point everyone realizes that
winning is cool
you gotta love it and then in my
league of legends years i'd once talked
to the ul
coach sheepy he was in in a for
something and he kind of talked to me
about satisfaction and he used very
league of legends terms for it
he was like okay a good example of
happiness for satisfaction is
if you go to worlds like
and you're if you're playing through the
team and you're you're enjoying like the
moment you play your team the wins
losses you're making playoffs
but if you don't make it to worlds are
you satisfied at the end of the year
and i just thought about that and i'm
like i'm probably not you know
regardless about how i do at worlds if i
don't make it i'm not satisfied
and for me that was like a very easy
league of legends way of putting it
or like esports really putting it of
like how to determine between like
satisfaction and happiness for myself
i know that like yeah i feel like you
have maybe like different
rules or logic but like it makes the
same sense
i i think you know it's interesting you
you mentioned
you know like loving to win or loving to
lose
i was working a buddy of mine as a is an
olympic athlete
and she was telling me that you know
when she was like growing up or when she
was training like someone asked her the
question
do you love to win or do you hate to
lose
and so when i work with when i work with
you know competitors i think that
becomes a really really important
question it's really fascinating to see
who says what in terms of what motivates
them
you know do you do you play because you
love to win
or do you like practice because you hate
to lose
i think i've spent years breaking myself
away from
being a competitor i think
now when you look at my recent streams
or my recent play
i focus a lot about being like a more
entertaining personality
as opposed to being a more competitive
video gamer and i think
it kind of comes at the expense of the
others sometimes
at least for me it does and trying to
find the balance is the difficult
in between so scarra i'm gonna circle
back to this idea of logic and empathy
throughout our conversation if that gets
annoying to you let me know
i think we're kind of mapping out a lot
of stuff but like so let me ask you when
you kind of say that when you look in
the mirror you see someone who's working
on it
yeah can you help me understand that
sentiment
um
[Music]
it's kind of like uh
i think naturally whatever i
tend to
i think everyone does some sort of sort
of internal self review
whether they do it uh on a day by day
week by week
where they do it under like the
influence or they do it like
with friends whatever with their
therapist there is some sort of
self-review
inherent in yourself and if i i find in
competitive types of people
and i still think i somewhat am that
like i tend to be very self-reflective
of what i do
and so every month or every couple of
weeks i'll be like well how am i
doing in certain different aspects of my
life
um and so i it sounds like i'm vod
reviewing my
my real life so it's like well
uh very immediately after a situation
whether like
i hang out with people or whatever i'll
think to myself like how did that go
like was it cool was it not cool did
like did something happen that you
enjoyed that you didn't
um and sometimes i'll come away from
that like i [ __ ] up like i made that
person uncomfortable i said some bad
stuff there
like how do i make up for it what do i
do in the future is it do i just ignore
it and then
be a better like try to be a better
person later i think that for me uh
there's a lot of that kind of
self-reflection over the years and so
when it comes to empathy it's like
uh i think i've been a better listener
over years because at first i would
listen to problems
and i i'd be like oh it's so easy are
you are you serious
you just do this it's like it's like why
is this a problem
i like maybe even say those words like
what's the problem like just just do
this
and like they were coming to me for like
emotional support and i was like [ __ ]
off like are you serious this is so easy
just so do it
scarra this is gonna be tough okay
okay so i i want to share something with
you that i think will
help a lot but i think it's going to be
a slippery
slippery thing to catch okay
so i'm going to start by introducing the
concept of cognitive empathy versus
emotional empathy
okay and i think what you have a lot of
is cognitive empathy
uh yeah i can see that when you say i
can see that what does that mean to you
what do you see
tell us well it's it's more just like
that makes sense i guess because when
you're talking like cognitive
i think cognitive i think like brain
function right yeah where it's more like
logical
yeah like empathy like i could see
myself being more as like a cognitive
empathy kind of guy rather than a you
know the rever the alternative
yep or i guess the other side
so the way that you are learning to be
empathic is through logic
you do vod review right so like so if we
think about emotional empathy
and if we think about technically what
empathy means
it's the ability to like feel someone
else's
emotions right so if i'm watching a
youtube video and someone gets hit in
the nuts
i feel that instinctive pain in myself
as i watch this other person suffer
it has nothing to do with cognition it
has everything to do with
an empathic response and i'm hearing
that you're becoming
socially adept
but i'm not sure that you're becoming
more empathic
because i think what you're really
enhancing is your cognitive empathy
you're looking at this like a game that
is played that has rules
you're looking at relationships like
chess and it's like if this person makes
this move
what is the right move for me to make
problem solving
is the wrong move listening is the right
move
how do i listen okay let's listen oh
that went well
good job scarra you're working
how do you feel about that
um i feel like there's a lot of truth in
what you said and i may not agree with
everything that you said but i'm willing
to listen so
what do you disagree with um i feel like
i may have explained it to you too
logically
um because there's no way okay
i find it very hard to believe that
people think specifically like that
logically about stuff so i even though i
explain it that way i don't necessarily
think or feel that way completely
okay but i do agree with you that like
that could be the case
and highly true so now we get to the
slippery part
and this is what's gonna be hard is when
i ask you
questions your answers are logical in
explanation
but i think that we're missing something
because you skirt very quickly
over something to a logical explanation
okay okay so i i'm glad that
you recognize that you explain something
logically so i'll give you just an
example
when i mentioned that i talked to some
people who consider you
to be like a very good friend and very
empathic and emotionally supportive what
was your response
i didn't think i
i feel like it's overplayed i guess at
my my initial response but that's
because
i have very early it is again slippery
okay
slippery right that's because
so one is an emotion and then the second
you say that's because you move into a
rationalization
slippery slippery i find that the best
way to talk about these things is
relatively rationally if possible
there's some people um
i feel like it's easier to break down
and digest
when you can do that um
and i found that especially
when i approach someone like you that i
feel like does that a lot
or can do that that it becomes easier to
talk to when it's completely logical or
like
mainly logical yes so i would concur to
you
that it is the i understand why you say
the best way but i think this is what
position did you play in law
when you were playing competitively
midland okay
so like i think that's a very like if
you think about
you know winning a game you can be mid
lane centric right like you can think
about the goals you're a mid laner
and that's your strengths so when when i
ask you like
i mean i think you understand this at a
higher level because you understand
law better but like if i were to ask
like a mid-tier law player
or if i go post on the league of legends
like reddit
and i ask how do i climb and they'll say
like you've got to play mid and carry
the game
technically it isn't true but like you
can certainly see why people feel that
way right
yeah like and supports will be like yeah
i tried playing support and it didn't
work and like i didn't start climbing
until i started playing mid
so i think that when you say it's the
best way i think that's because that's
the thing that
you're the best at agreed
so i think that like where we need to
work on because i think it's like subtle
and i'm curious do you remember what you
were going to say when when i s
you were about to say that's because and
then i cut you off like a dick
but i think you were saying something
really important do you have very low
expensive my self-worth
there we go a lot of times yep
so uh
yeah i think that's normal
some a lot of times okay so
so there you go explaining it
rationalizing it it's normal to feel
this way
yeah right but like how do we so what
are you feeling right now
that i put myself out there
a little bit more than i have normally
that i usually wouldn't say that
uh without some sort of joking
connotation to it that i usually would
on stream
so i'll ask you this question i think
for the second or third time and you may
hear it a few more times
scarra what do you see when you look in
the mirror
someone who's happy about where they're
at
and maybe not too happy about what he
sees physically in the mirror
okay so
can i think for a second go ahead
[Music]
i'm figuring out how to say this
so what i'm hearing is that you work so
you look in the mirror right so we're
gonna i'm gonna put myself in scara's
head for a second okay
so hopefully we get some things that are
right here but you've done a very good
job of sort of pointing out
you know where i'm off so i'd really
appreciate that
saskara looks at himself in the mirror
and he's happy with some things and
he's unhappy with other things so then
what scarra does is scar says like let's
work on
right let's think about this let's do
some analysis like let's
draw on this skill set to make ourselves
better
and then you work on yourself and now
you can start to be like content i'm
just keep going
okay then you start to work on yourself
because that's what you know how to do
right like you know how to improve
yourself you know how to be logical
about what you can work on and what you
can't work on
and so like you work on it for a while
like two years ago you embarked on this
this thing like okay you haven't been
necessarily lonely in the past but like
now you're kind of worrying
working on like forming relationships
and having authentic experiences and
you're gonna work on it
and then you can even be proud of that
you can look at yourself in the mirror
and you can say like scar
has come a long way and i'm like living
a life that's more enriching i'm
starting to step away from like you know
being judged by the internet and like
you can make lots of progress
and so when you look in the mirror you
have this beautiful response
someone who's working on it right it's
so positive
and like that's what you've got to do
you look at yourself there's something
you're not happy with and like you work
on it that's how you become a pro league
of legends player
right because there's always something
to improve
and logic is your shield it's your tool
it's your sword it's everything
and the challenge though is that you can
work on it and you can work on it and
you can work on it and you can be
satisfied in that dimension of your life
but when you look in the mirror like
that other feeling doesn't go away
hmm
okay what do you think about that
i'm trying to figure out what you mean
when you say other feeling
so a few moments ago you got a little
bit emotional
that thing doesn't change
right and i think like what i've now i'm
i'm really going out on a whim
and i think that there's something very
dangerous that could be going on
which is that the more you work on
things
and the more that other thing doesn't
change
what do you logically conclude
the more you work on your life and the
more successful you become
yes the more you work on empathy yes
and the better you get and if you look
in the mirror
the more that that other feeling like
continues persists
i think when i look in the mirror i
think a lot of things that i
could do but i'm not doing
so whether it's like uh
working out more as a very good example
um and it's things that like
i don't know whether i should be feeling
i think i can i can rationalize some
things you know and i think that's one
of the things that like you can
find a way to kind of rationalize it in
a lot of different ways
um i don't know
[Music]
i think if foo i use the words i think a
lot now that you've brought it up
because when we're talking about my
feeling of low
self-worth i think that comes with the
fact that i
feel like i am not
flexible or good enough
as a person in every situation
but the way i've handled that feeling
is the understanding that i will never
be perfect
and to take steps slow
yep so i i think that's adaptive
right you're you could call it
acceptance
so here's what i was kind of angling
towards and i'm gonna lay it out for you
logically
so i think it's gonna be terrifying
because there are some things you can
work on and there are some things that
you can't
and the adaptive way to look at that is
that no one is perfect
but like it also like can engender i
know this sounds kind of weird
some degree of hopelessness because
despite
all your efforts despite all your growth
when you look in the mirror you still
see
like something that's a little bit ugly
yeah and then what happens is you start
to think to yourself like i could do
things to change this
i could work out more for example but
the
challenge there is as logical as that is
like it actually engenders feelings of
hopelessness and powerlessness
because who are you you're someone who
could do something
but you don't
and then how do you feel about being
that person
i feel more human that's that's good
that's actually very good like um
that's kind of what i see is like
i don't mean max my life
even though i feel like i'm fairly
logical because i
understand except that
i'll have days which i'm just don't feel
like doing it
days where it's you know you stay in bed
a little bit longer days where you
uh do chores but you put them off and i
find that i just
categorize those moments as just being
normal
that's not bad thing that's just
a normal thing okay so when we're
categorizing
what kind of part of our mind are we
using
logical part there we go so i can see
that like this is
like so logic is your mid lane right
it's like your
your strong suit and yeah that's what i
understand
absolutely so i think that this is where
if we think about like
you know that moment that you
experienced emotion do you have a sense
of how we brought that emotion out
uh yeah
i think you asked me to point out
something fairly vulnerable
something that i wouldn't be comfortable
sharing to the general public
normally okay so
let me stop there for a second because
it you don't i want to
impress upon you that you really don't
have to share anything that you don't
feel comfortable with
oh no i'm completely okay like yeah yeah
i i know most people feel that way but
here's what i
here's what i would do so here's what i
intentionally tried to do
so the first time that i asked you the
question i saw the emotion
you had a micro expression of like and
you swatted away
the praise of your friends yes
and so like why does someone swat away
the praise of of their friends it's
because like you don't
feel like you are what they think you
are they're wrong because you said if
they only spent more time with me
they would see the real me which is
uglier
right i'm not trying to focus on an
appearance thing there but like
like we like it's like you're showing
your friends like this nice
empathic supportive person that you try
really hard and you can be proud of and
worked on
but like the funny thing is there's the
flip side to that coin which is like
they're not
seeing the real me
and if they spent more time with me if
they saw me when my defenses were down
and if they got unfiltered scarra they'd
see something else
and then you launched into your logical
explanation
so i think the way that we got to the
emotion and you do it fast scarra it's
like
it's the transition is so damn quick you
touch the negative emotion and then your
mind is like categorized in logic
you skirt over it you launch into like a
feel-good story about positivity and
self-growth and learning about yourself
and then like that emotion gets left
behind and so the
the the harder i make it for you to
skirt past it the more you begin to see
your logical defense mechanisms the more
it
uncovers that emotion and then if you
start to categorize it the emotion is
going to get buried
and so what you're going to be doing is
you're going to be like grinding mid
lane
and like forgetting about the support
role
and so like you've become very
cognitively empathic it's beautiful your
analogies are great dude like you
understand it so well
replay analysis for conversations
i'll do it that well but i know what you
mean yeah right
so so that even though you sort of said
i don't do it that well i'm not
detecting any real emotion underneath
that
whereas i think that like when we get to
like you know and i genuinely don't
think that you felt lonely in college
but like there are questions that i'm
purposely avoiding asking you
like because i think that they're gonna
elicit emotional responses and like i
don't know if
like i don't know that we ever need to
ask those questions because i think the
most
important thing to i'm sure it'll be
clip worthy but like
the most important thing is to help you
understand like how to access your
emotions
because your emotions don't need to be
fixed
agreed right and and so but it's hard
because you like to fix things
uh so like you've learned how to listen
to other people
and you're starting to sort of learn how
to listen to yourself
but i think that you default to problem
solving your own life
yeah i could see that all right
so you know what i'd really like to do
is teach you
about stepping away from your logical
mind
what do you think about that uh
i think that'd be cool
okay yeah so tell me about
round four what do you see when you look
in the mirror
i don't know like if i'm gonna be a
hundred percent honest
i don't know i don't really think about
it too much
okay um aside from the fact that like i
don't like to see
the reflection that looks back
physically um
what i think i oh just like
i wish
i was skinnier i guess
like i wish i was more healthy sure so
so
so i'm gonna just repeat back to you
what you said because i think we're
getting somewhere but now i'm gonna go
the logical route
cool i don't know what i see when i look
in the mirror
except for dot dot dot
yes right so like if we think about that
response logically for a second
there's like a dominant direction
which is like something negative i think
yes and so i think i first look at the
physical appearance
okay and and what do you
yeah so and and what do you think about
your physical appearance
uh that it could be better is one way to
phrase it
yep good so now that's your positive
adaptive
version right so what's the flip side of
the coin for
it could be better uh that i
will die before i'm 40 unless i start
taking care of myself
that's still a positive there's a
dirtier version underneath
uh
how do you feel when you look in the
mirror out of shape
okay um let me know if i'm digging in
like so i like let me share with you
because i'm gonna i'm gonna do some of
the lifting for you okay
scarra yeah so i'm going to do this
because i i don't want you to feel bad
and i feel like if i keep on asking you
questions you're going to feel bad
so we're going to stay in the safety i
think you're a
pretty far away point for me feeling bad
okay but maybe that's just defensively
what i'm saying
but it's i'm okay
i think that i'm pretty sure
okay so when you look at yourself and
you feel like someone
should be someone who could be in shape
more that's the problem-solving
side right it gives you a direction to
fix
what you see in the mirror yes do you
see how like that's
intrinsically tied but
what needs to be fixed scara
from our conversation the emotional side
sure but fundamentally what kinds of
things need to be fixed
i don't know the response to this
question
things that are broken yes
right so like when you look in the
mirror
do you feel what you're looking at is
something that's
busted no okay
let me think about that response for a
second
it by the way i thought it was really
good when you told me you don't know the
answer that i'm looking for
it's very helpful i i i'm i'm trying to
do it as logically as i can
yeah that's what we need to get rid of
yeah but like i don't know how else to
do it because when you're asking me what
i see in the mirror i first think
physic like what i actually look at in
the mirror and i don't remember
what i look at okay like i almost would
go to the mirror right now and be like
who are you yeah that's a good we'll do
that for our meditation okay
so so what do you think about your
appearance
let's start with think
at the base most basic level
it's that i'm fat and i could be better
that's it okay so i want to just point
out once again that anytime something
could be better the flip side of the
coin is that it's not good enough
true but i think if i go down that route
it'll be so self-destructive
that it'll be terrible for me as a
person and
that's why and there lies your problem
yes so this is that's the road
scar that you have to walk
so like your whole problem is that you
have deviated away from that road for so
long
it come kind of comes back to like not
recognizing like the value of
experiences
and this is where like you have to walk
the dark road like you have to step away
from the adaptive road
and you know you should walk walk it
with care because you're
logically correct that oftentimes
swimming in that ocean
leads to self-destruction
yes but like you know you
you gotta you have to walk that road
and you try so hard to not walk that
road and like as long you can stay as
adaptive as you want to but that thing
will not be fixed
yes i well
usually it's like a i tell my stream
this that usually a lot of problems get
fixed because
uh self-hatred i just hate it uh my
lazy my self-hatred overcomes my
laziness so eventually like if i have a
problem
like i'll like that i hate i'll hate it
enough to where
it overcomes my want to not do anything
about it
and then i end up fixing it or trying to
fix it
or working on it i think that we rely on
negative emotions a lot to spur us
forward in life
right so when you say self-hatred to
overcome laziness that makes a lot of
sense to me
and i think that like what we've got to
do for for you to be
happy because i don't think that you can
be happy in your whole being
as long as like that darkness or that
little
ball or whatever that is is there like
you can adapt around it
like you can you know build roads around
it you can build walls around it you can
do all kinds of things
you can work on other things you can
learn how to be like proud of yourself
which i think you genuinely have
you actually come across to me as like
like a relatively like confident and
secure person
i think it's because i i know a lot i
feel like
you know when it says when a with age
comes wisdom
you tend to find out more about yourself
as you go older
and for me that means i've kind of yeah
done that i guess so my weaknesses
my strengths my faults are things that i
have a bigger understanding of as i've
gone through multiple different
situations okay i think that
understanding and wisdom are good things
do you feel angry at yourself scarra
right now or about certain things or
yeah sure uh
i usually feel i usually feel frustrated
more so than anger what are you
frustrated by
um not dealing
like uh i guess
uh a common thing will be like if people
play with me
uh i tend to want them to feel good
about
it like even if they don't say it
afterwards like i can tell
if like the mood was good or it wasn't
so if i do a poor job
i i bring like bad energy or i just
don't
accommodate them well
then i feel frustrated or bad about it
a lot of times what are you frustrated
by
my inability to make them have fun
because i think a lot of the times
i can do that i know i can do that
tell me about that um so
if i'm in the let's say it's very simple
so like oh tv has a lot of friends
okay like whatever so i bring in
let's say i bring in like just otv so we
all play together
um i i mean it's just like looking
out for people and making sure they're
having fun if you can kind of tell if
they're not having a good time
and like if that's happening usually
you'll see this very commonly uh that
like
someone reaches out and like tries to
talk to them or get them more engaged
into the game
uh or to like kind of work with them or
just like you know shoot the [ __ ]
so that they feel like they had a good
time that that's what i strive to do
when i play with friends
so what are you frustrated by when that
fails
when when it fails to happens and i
think
sometimes i'm frustrated because there
were moments where i
feel like i could have been able to do
that and sometimes it's completely
impossible like they're just having a
really [ __ ] bad day
and like it's it's like really
impossible to [ __ ] do that
but most of the times i feel like it's
possible
okay can you control the emotions of
another human being
i wish um
no but you can make it
not manipulate it but kind of guide them
towards certain emotions
kind of like what you're doing right now
okay a little bit yeah so but i mean
you try though right so here's what i'm
hearing from you
you accept responsibility for other
people's enjoyment
uh only when i feel like
i could have made it more it could have
made it better
does that make sense so
that's what's so damning so let me just
repeat back to you what you just said
i only accept responsibility for other
people's enjoyment when i don't do a
good job at making them feel joy
that's a damning way of saying it i
usually agree with most of what you
you say i think in that scenario
it's more like there are certain
scenarios that would play out like
certain
certain moments during the session where
i'm like
oh i could have said this to help out a
little bit more you know
or this i could have done this instead
to help out
a little bit more what's
yep so i think here's the here's what
i'm gonna draw for you okay scar
when i shared with you so this is like
okay i'm gonna explain it i don't know
if this is gonna go in the right
direction or the wrong
direction but instinctively i'm feeling
like
going for the throat emotionally here is
like a big mistake
okay so i'm gonna play on the rational
level okay
so um yeah i'm just not i feel like
yeah it's up to you i'm running into
your rational defense mechanisms and
there's a part of me that wants to pull
out my
sledgehammer and like smash them apart
but you can
do it i know you say that but i'm not
gonna do that
okay understandable so so here's the
thing like i
so like there's a part of you that i
think you don't feel
like you're good enough yes okay
so like and it's interesting because it
pops out in weird ways and like i think
what you've managed to do
is like adapt around it which is very
good it's like what most people do
right like you learn how to compensate
for your weaknesses
it's kind of like you've got a bum leg
so you like figure out you know like
how to you know walk with a limp and
then you grab a crotch or a cane or
whatever
you do whatever you need to to like get
by
and then what i find is that like a lot
of our adaptive behaviors
over time become maladaptive
and this is where like the question like
i'm really curious about your like
romantic experiences
it's something that i'm steering a
little bit clear of
um we'll get there i'm gonna ask you
because i've mentioned it now
what are you feeling now i'm feeling
that i commonly stir away
from relationships a lot of the times i
feel
uh scared to pursue them because
of the
i feel like there's a large part of me
that considers my
friends and my friend group like my
family and so
i feel like there's a lot of even if
they don't have this
a lot of judgment that we're going to
stop you there
right so the reason i'm going to stop
you there is because it happened
so i i mentioned romantic relationships
i didn't even ask you about it and what
was your first
response what was the first thing that
came out of your mouth
i really just do not remember it was oof
yes it's because i haven't been in the
relationship in years
yes so so like that is the emotion
and the second you skirt past that and
you go
to i i start i feel scared you can own
some emotions and then you get into the
rational explanation of i think about
them as family
that too is protective but we'll get
like we'll get to romance in a second
but we've got to take a step back and
like lay out some of this foundation
so like your window of growth is going
to be the oof
and the closer we can sit with the
that's a little tough
you're damn right it is because like you
know exactly what i'm talking about you
try
really hard to get away from it
yeah i can see that yep so we're gonna
we're gonna go there together okay
but like when you're ready we're gonna
do it very very gently kitty pool first
sure okay so i don't even remember what
the kiddie pool is now but i want um
hold on
i blinked what were you talking about uh
you said you wanted for you i could only
talk or you want to talk about the oof
portion yeah yeah and you'll get into
the kiddie pool
yeah yeah you start with the kiddie pool
and then you said
yeah yeah before like that one i just
went the whole thing was a tangent so
let me just think for a second
i have a grid oh we were talking about
adaptation and maladaptation yeah right
so like i think you've learned an
adaptive way of getting around
like some like you know the feeling not
good enough oh we were talking about
relationships and you feeling frustrated
with yourself here it is okay
so here's the thing when people are not
fully secure in who they
are and when they don't feel like
they're good enough like especially from
like an appearance standpoint or like
i know this is going to sound weird i'm
just going to put a word to it which i'm
sure you'll have some resistance to
because it's not the perfect word
lovable so i think that you bring a lot
of value
to your friends and you try really
really hard
to bring value to your friends you bring
you carry responsibility for their joy
on your shoulders
you're always thinking about enriching
their experiences
and you feel frustrated with yourself
when they don't feel enough joy when
they have a bad day
you think about what you could have done
better now
above the water that's caring it's being
a good friend
underneath the water i see this kind of
dynamic
in like i don't think that you have this
but i'm just gonna use this as an
example
in like abusive relationships where you
start to really like
feel responsible for the feelings of
other people around you i really don't
think that your friends are abusive or
anything like that
and and this is where the common element
is like worth
okay the common element is like
i have to like make these people's lives
better because
i have to try so hard to make these
people's lives better
oh it's not that hard
they're my friends for a reason you know
sure sure sure
but there's a seedy underbelly here
which like i think is unfortunately like
that
you know you can't just be yourself
like what i'm noticing about your social
interactions is that they feel very
effortful to me
and this kind of gets back to this like
and just because you've gotten good at
it
scarra gets back to like your original
statement which i'm sorry buddy but you
impaled yourself on this which is like
they only see me part of the time
which tells me that like there's front
facing scarra
and there's like back end scar yeah
uh i don't think it's that different but
i do agree
sure
right so so now what we really have to
get into is like
what is back end scara right and this is
where like when we get to romantic
relationships we're gonna find
all kinds of weird things that your mind
does
to keep you from like
protect you from like all the feelings
that you have so i'm gonna give you a
hypothetical example
i do not think that this applies to you
sometimes the reason that people think
about friends as family is because
they're afraid
of if of what would happen if they have
romantic feelings towards their friends
okay right so that's just an example
okay so there are all kinds of
adaptations that our mind will do
to keep up to protect us from some of
the feelings that we may have
not that i agree with so like
questions thoughts no
nothing i think i think it's like i
understand why you bring up
the first part i agree with you with
your statement um yeah that's
i don't have many thoughts on the matter
i guess
until we approach a different topic and
i do agree i feel
that a lot of the talk right now is like
just trying to target
uh the things i've built safety
mechanisms around to dodge
oh you're not yeah sorry um yes
so i think that i i do
spend a lot of time
i guess i built the safety mechanism a
lot earlier
because uh it was there to make it so i
guess dodged uh
negative feelings or negative points
yep um and uh
rather than focus on like a lot of my
negative stuff i would just find ways to
make it productive and focus
on how to enrich my life
um i do now understand that some of it
if not a lot of it is
uh i guess uh
built in deeply to the point where it's
difficult to
shake from yep so we're gonna start that
process today so i'm going to share a
couple of things okay
and then i want you to give me a
direction okay so
the first is that we've got two options
here and this may be like a two-parter
kind of thing but like
not it doesn't have to be but i feel
like we probably
should separate out the content of what
you're protecting
from the mechanism with which you're
protecting it
okay can i take a minute to use the
restroom i
yes literally drink the whole thing okay
i'll be right back
we doing good chat we're good scar is
knocking it out of the park
oh so for the people who are saying
almost there
that means we need to back away
yeah dude he's got some he's got some
wicked he's like a dodge tank
just watch the dodge right and like it's
really hard to be a dodge tank
and like willingly like not move when
the blow is coming
it's it goes against everything that
you've trained your body to do
so that's the thing i i don't think he's
too tanky
his evasion is through the roof oh we're
just using our video game analogies yeah
my evasions through the room yeah yeah
all right what i was explaining to chad
is that you know it's hard for you to
get hit but anyway um so here's the
thing so like the mechanism so we've got
two options we can dig into
the content of what you protect yourself
against
or we can kind of focus on that
mechanism of like forcing you to sit in
that space
and like take the hit instead of
skirting past it
so let me give you just an example okay
so you say that like
when it comes to like we could talk
about the content of romantic
relationships i'm pretty sure that what
we'll uncover is that
you have these negative emotions which
like prompt you to do certain actions
and we can kind of dig into that
or we can see like the mechanism through
which your adaptations have formed
does that make sense i think the
mechanisms might be more helpful for me
i think so too i think it'll be safer as
well
yeah so like we're still go i'm going to
ask you hard-hitting questions but like
there's a
different direction that i'm going to go
so yeah ask you a hard-hitting question
i'm not gonna follow up with another
hard-hitting question
you're gonna dodge and then i'm gonna i
could follow up with another
hard-hitting question
or we can just see how you dodged and
see what you dodged away from
that's the most important thing okay
okay
so like tell me about how you feel about
romantic relationships
uh i guess really scared i think when
you're in the public eye uh
it's you read a lot of bad things
and i constantly feel like
uh either i won't be
yeah i guess i'm i'm really worried
about what another
in the what another variable would do
introduced to my life that's already in
a good position
and then there's already a lot of
variables attached to it that could have
that i'm scared of okay what
what are you scared of
chat got it
chad just saw the dodge it was really
good so we'll get there
um putting myself out there
what does that mean i don't know
let me let me think give me a sec give
me a second
maybe being afraid
i don't know okay that's okay so
we're making progress now we're swimming
in the deep dark ocean because you can't
see it
so i think this is actually a step
forward so the more that you say i don't
know
what that certainly isn't is a logical
defense mechanism
does that make sense but when i ask you
like
just think about this for a second okay
when i ask someone why are you scared of
engaging in a relationship
and they say there are lots of variables
that could affect my life like that's
the dodge of the century
sure yeah right so i'll try asking you
the question again
what are you afraid of scar
being not good enough for someone else
when i already feel like i'm not good
enough
for myself okay
so i don't know if your cognitive
empathy is so good
that you have manufactured that response
because that's what i'm looking for that
was a good one right
it was a really good show i don't know
either i'll be honest with you
no i think it was genuine i i think what
you're learning how to do is like
vocalize how you feel right and and your
logic is working for you now
instead of like protecting you
so like you can piece things together if
you're willing to swim around in that
space
i also do not think it is a coincidence
that that statement
came after you said i don't know a
couple of times
okay something can be easier as a robot
life would be easier as a robot but yeah
so you've tried very hard to be a robot
[Music]
right so so now like let's think about
that right like so like
have you been so now we're gonna go
closer to the throat
okay it's not quite the killing blow
because i'm not gonna strike all the way
but we're gonna get close
so like have you been we're not going to
mention any names
we're going to complete anonymity okay i
strongly encourage you
even if you say i'm an open book doctor
k we're not going to do that
so have you been has there been someone
that you've been romantically interested
in the last three years
maybe but i think i do a good
way of rationalizing against it makes
yep so we're gonna say the answer is yes
when i ask you the question
instead of giving me the answer i want
you to like i'm gonna ask you did you
think about a particular person
i don't know i'm going to say that the
answer is yes
i i i don't know and that's my serious
answer let me continue to continue let
me think about it
right so like i know we said we weren't
going to say it
but i need you to think it at least
you don't have to tell a damn soul i
i've certainly crushed on someone before
sure but go ahead so like
think about the last person that you
crushed on
okay and if the last three years like i
just don't
i find it very hard to believe although
i'm willing to be wrong but we're not
gonna ask you
so we can't you know that like there's
you gotta have crushed on someone in the
last three years bro
sure yeah right so like just think about
that person
okay okay so like when you think about
like did you ever entertain
thoughts of being in like a relationship
with them
no yes maybe initially but immediately
no
so how to help us understand
initially what your thoughts were
it would be complicated that's
where that's when that's where they went
where did they start
i i think they started with the simple
idea that i thought that
i wasn't attractive enough
for them okay
and then it ended at the thoughts i said
prior
yep good so so that's like i think we
all know that
by now right like i think you don't have
to be
dr k to figure out that's what's
happening so now like here's the
challenge
okay and this is why i'm digging into
this scara
because i think that like i know this
sounds weird
i think you are attractive enough for
them
and i think the real sad thing is that
it is your belief
that you're not attractive enough for
them that is
actually like becoming the
self-fulfilling prophecy
of like the current romantic state that
you're in
oh that
so like this is where like i know that
your mind goes to complications and
variables
when you don't feel good enough and this
is really important to understand
the mind loves complexity
right so like let me just ask you this
is another read my mind question
so i if i'm like working with like let's
say i'm supposed to meet a partner for a
school project
and they show up an hour late and they
give me like 15 reasons why they're
late what happens when they say the
first reason
what happens to my [ __ ] meter the
more reasons they give me for why
they're right
they're late at some point i would just
assume they didn't care
absolutely and if they give me one
reason
if they just say i overslept i'm so
sorry versus
i overslept and then my dog pooped and
then this happened and then i think it's
more
truthful yes right so like the more your
mind
comes up with variables and
complications and the more variables it
adds to the
equation the more bs that your mind is
engaging in yes
with you and so like this comes back to
like
now we get to the real problem which is
oh [ __ ] i don't even know how to ask
this
i'm trying to ask this in an open-ended
quest way
but so you don't think you're good
enough
for them right uh yes
to some extent sure sure i i feel like
if i'm not good enough for myself
there's no way i want to bring that to
someone else
yeah i'm with you there okay so like
that that makes a lot of sense to me so
so and this was where we get
back to you know what do you see when
you look in the mirror and i think you
see something that's not good enough
and and so then the question becomes
like
can you act without being good enough
absolutely wait really i don't know
how you define act so like like
what so specifically i guess what i what
i mean is like
can you ask someone out if you feel like
you're not good enough for them
confidently hell though
but you can it's possible
is it though i don't mean theoretically
i mean for you
oh no okay right wait wait i thought you
meant like theoretically because like
like yeah but but like yeah i'll be sure
but that's the problem right so like
once again we see it which is like your
mind like gets to this
like when i ask you a question it's just
like because bro at some point like
you're gonna crush on someone again
right
yeah and i want you to chase love bro
right and and this is where like like
this is where like a nice
there's emotion i can see it you're
laughing yeah like what are you feeling
i think that'd be nice i i think
there's negative emotion i don't see
niceness in your face oh
um when i tell you to chase love how do
you feel
would be nice as a projection of the
logical mind
yes it would be maybe
i feel like it will happen
hmm
i i feel like i'm taking some steps to
get there
i guess yes but i don't know
like outside of this conversation yep
yep yep so that's
dangerous yes okay because you're
taking steps yes right so like now
you're waiting for preparation
you're gonna get yourself in shape
you're going to learn to be good enough
and then you will ask
someone i don't know if you're bisexual
heterosexual homosexual
pansexual whatever so like when you ask
someone
out like you're like it'll happen one
day when you're ready
i understand the danger of that good
logic what is the alternative that's
that's also very good
because what i'm hearing in that
statement is i think when i ask you like
i want you to chase love i think what
you feel is abject
terror
fear is definitely one of the emotions
that comes up what else is there
[Music]
um
maybe disbelief a little bit like
especially during covid i uh my ability
to socialize
in fact i i think a lot with a lot a lot
of other people are similar as probably
through the floor but sure i think covet
is causing lots of problems and
if i think if covid wasn't happening
your mind would find another excuse
yes absolutely i'm really good at that
yes so this is where like you will
you know like this is where like scarra
like i want you to think back to that
early phase when you were crushing on
someone and like what
got in the way
and it's so hard because like your your
evasion is through the roof so you
quickly went to all the variables
but like yeah and i'm trying to go back
so
and that's where it becomes a little
difficult uh
can you so i i don't want to mess up
your life maybe
maybe a little bit of fear rejection but
um
i guess it's like
fear of the unknown maybe okay a little
bit
yeah i think fear of rejection makes
sense but like
i know this sounds kind of weird but
like do you feel comfortable
telling us a story about someone that
you were attracted to or crushing on
because i think this is where like if
you tell us the story we'll be able to
discover the emotion
because i you don't have to look for it
because i think it's hard for you to see
i but you may not feel comfortable and i
certainly don't want to complicate your
life if you have to like if people are
going to try to stitch together the
pieces because
i think yeah is very important here i
think
this is not something that i would say
on this show because
i don't want any kind of weird rumors
spreading or any of that it's just not
fun
yep i'm with you 100 so i i'm just
now i have to try to problem solve for
like how are we gonna access the emotion
because if you tell us the story the
emotion is gonna be there
can we go further back can we pick
someone that like
you maybe had a similar response to that
is like
older than three years like five years
seven years
that like is there any example you can
give us that will be drama free
ooh if you can't that's fine too
i don't i can't remember like that's the
thing sure sure
like i don't know if it's repressed
memory but just in general it's
difficult
okay no no no it's i know it's difficult
that's that's why like
so sometimes when people are having
trouble with memory and accessing
emotions
oftentimes they can tell a story right
so like
like you can tell a story like you
talked about you know for example like
traveling all over the world and things
like that
and then we can dig at the emotion
underneath if we can get you talking
now it's just a problem because i don't
know like i think this is
like this self-esteem not being able to
like risk
you know giving giving a shot at love is
like
i mean this we gotta fix from you're
gonna fix something it's like you gotta
you gotta like
try to love you know you gotta you gotta
take that chance and i think the problem
is that you don't wanna take the chance
because you don't even think it's a
chance you think it's
a mess
yeah i would agree with most of that
statement
so what what are we gonna do about it
scarra
i am trying to
figure it out which is why i'm
uh out loud for us think out loud
okay well currently i'm trying to
remember
if
huh
i'm trying to remember ways that don't
sound like deflection
and just feel it
apart don't worry squirrel yeah as much
as you want to just there's there's just
a bunch of
random things why i feel
good can you share them with us
um i think a lot of
the based on what i do every day
as well as the contract i signed
that i don't have it's it's
difficult to balance i guess
uh working on my relationships with my
friends
as well as working on a relationship
with myself and then with someone else
that's always sense to me yeah i agree
with you in the fact
that i'm definitely i definitely put
like
romance aside for stuff and something
i've been very frank about
with people it's like yes i did do that
to pursue like
a career like i definitely put like
first yeah
um and
the a lot of scary parts about being
like
especially kind of an older uh
person uh in this
base i would say because i a lot of my
peers are
uh in their 20s still
so i think that
a lot of the times when
i i feel like it's difficult to be it's
impossible to meet someone if you don't
put yourself out there
and
i can't it's i'm definitely not putting
myself out there by streaming every day
except for maybe to like fans that
message me and tell me they're
they're like 20 and i immediately
like blocked them or don't [ __ ]
interact with them because that's
[ __ ] weird
um what's weird yeah
i think the age gap is crazy and i think
the power dynamic is crazy
and i would not want to be in that
hole where i've seen a lot of other
people get absolutely
destroyed uh it's not something i want
for myself
not something i want for any of my peers
sure
you mentioned your age a couple of times
do you mind if i ask how old you are
oh i'm uh 31. i almost had to think for
a sec
because i'm either 30 or 31 i can never
remember
i think
yeah that doesn't make any sense but
yeah uh you don't think it makes sense
i i think it's just a random [ __ ]
role uh
let me i i think it makes as much sense
as anything else
yeah sure um it's just like i've never
heard the origin of it i've
people have just always said it to me
and i'm just like
okay what is half my age plus seven you
round up
what does that even [ __ ] mean okay so
so it's
23 for you which sounds like a little
bit young i feel like it's like 24
yeah but like sure yeah is the minimum
um hmm so i'm hearing a lot of what
you're saying scar so i'm going to
change tax
for a minute so like now we're going to
be
instead of smashing through your defense
mechanisms and being logical i'm gonna
be like
emotionally supportive okay okay i'm
gonna be on your team now
instead of the aggressor oh nice okay
so we'll see where that gets us so be
prepared for the shift
okay so what i'm hearing you say is that
like
you know there are a lot of we're going
to do a little bit of what we call
motivational interviewing
okay i've never heard this before okay
i'm ready
so this is a it's a clinical technique
this is not therapy by the way so you
can do it with other people you know it
doesn't have to be a part of like a
medical
oh nice actually i can't wait to pull
this out but
um essentially what we're going to try
to do is like help you
move one step closer to being able to
like
ask someone out okay okay
so in the way so here's how here's how
it goes so like here's what i'm hearing
from you first of all
um there are a lot of things that are
important to you right now like so i
think your career is important to you
your friendships are important to you
and working on yourself is important to
you yes absolutely
and what i'm also hearing is that like
when it comes to romantic relationships
like
i'm almost getting the sense that you're
following the advice
that most people give to people who are
lonely
which is work on yourself and it'll
happen
that does seem
at least parallel sure yeah how do you
feel about that that's okay
like i don't mind paralleling advice
i i always am hesitant to take advice
fully
but like i i mean
i think i'm pretty i think i'm pretty
i i always tend to take the approach
where you
it's better huh well [ __ ] i can't even
say this because that's not what i'm
doing
right now um so i was gonna say
it's better to try and fail because at
least you know it didn't work
which i do for some other parts of my
career
but maybe not for my romantic life
i'm confused are you now thinking about
trying and failing
um no it's more like i don't do that so
that's why i'm saying that like
i do that with a lot of other parts of
myself
so like stuff like making otv stuff like
you know a lot of my early career path
when it came toward
playing professionally dropping college
stuff like that but like it i don't
follow
that philosophy i guess when it comes to
romance well i mean it sounds like it's
a bad idea when it comes to romance and
it's a good idea when it comes to other
philosophies
like other parts um i do think the
general idea is still good which is like
putting yourself out there is good
and like that's what like we've come
kind of come to agreements that
i'm not doing well yeah but i mean i
think you've got good reasons to not do
it we just
said those right like
i mean you can't do everything at once
yes
but i feel like i are you the rational
part of me now
like i feel like now you're my defense
mechanism because what you just said is
stuff that i would say to myself
so i'm wondering like are there just two
and as i become as i become the rational
part of you what do you become
um worried
oh worried
um yeah i i mean you did say you're
switching
but i i am
now worried because i have to now take
your position
you were just in yes so now we've kind
of flip-flopped
so huh
and that's motivational interviewing ah
excellent right because here you are i
that
happened way faster than i expected it
to but well done
and you saw through it and i sort of
because it's interesting right because
like
here i am taking your side and then
suddenly you're talking about oh like
i do this in other parts of my life but
i don't do this in romance
and if i said that to you what would you
have said
why you have asked me why
no if if i said to you oh scara
you you are willing to fail in terms of
career and friendships but you're not
willing to fail in terms of romance
what would your response have been
a bunch of reasons i already gave
exactly
you would have dodged and now
you're feeling weird because i think
like
you're beginning to like gain insight
into the fact that you're not doing the
right thing
and now i've stopped being you and i've
started being me again and here comes
the resistance
so let's say yeah sorry is this when you
say statements like you're not doing the
right thing
i kind of take that as like a attack on
my personal whole
as opposed to just an attack on what
we're talking about
so i had to wait a second to kind of
disjoint the two um
and now i'm okay whereas like
have you felt personally attacked by me
before during this conversation
um
i feel like everything we've talked
about has been very personal
have you felt personally attacked by me
before in this conversation
attack is a strong word no okay
so like i know this is kind of weird but
you just felt attacked by me
right a little bit yeah
yeah so how like so now let's look at it
logically okay so this is this is a
great example of motivational
interviewing
i mean in terms of how people feel and i
think your insight
actually scarra is like really really
helpful because it's i couldn't explain
this
so like you said we're gonna just use
your statements okay
everything we've talked about is
personal now
you feel like you haven't been attacked
why do you feel like you're being
attacked
now and i think it's because
yeah go ahead you seem like you have a
hypothesis no
continue so as i take your
side as i become you
you become me and as you become me
the emotions and the vulnerability
increases
you begin to see how you're not actually
taking a chance
you begin to like feel that
vulnerability and once the vulnerability
arises
the same [ __ ] that i've been saying this
entire time
feels like an attack but why does it
feel like an attack because your
defenses are down
and you even saw it happen you were like
wait you're being me
now i'm your defense i'm holding your
shield
and so you're left without one and then
like a benign statement that i make
makes you feel attacked
yes yes somewhat yes
okay so like if you want if we could
just do it again
and see what happens like even if you
have insight it's not gonna change
so this is what happens when you work
with people empathically
awareness of the thing doesn't stop it
from happening
absolutely right so like where do you
want to go from here because now i'm
confused because i was expecting the mi
stuff to take way longer
for you to start to feel these things i
got that
i got a big brain scarra
i don't know i think that uh
when you talk to me about saying
when i at the point that i felt attacked
was when you told me um
that it was like a holistic statement
about
that everything i'm doing is wrong or
something like that
um when you were specifically targeting
like i guess we were talking about the
romance side and i immediately thought
for a second that you're talking about
me as a whole
so like i felt defensive there
because i'm at least confident enough to
be like
i got my i got my [ __ ] unlocked like i i
think some of it
i'm doing really well sure so
let me just take a step back and
apologize if i you know
if i made a statement that was an attack
on you as well oh no
i was actually thinking i was speaking
hypothetically i wasn't even talk i was
like
trying to mirror what i thought you
would think but anyway
so let's just try this one more time
okay
so what i'm hearing from you is that
like basically you kind of don't have
the bandwidth for a relationship right
now
possibly help me understand the possibly
because it sounds like it you know you
really are working on a lot of like
really important things
it's
i think on some empathetic level
when i look toward what i do with my
friends
and that sometimes i fail
i wouldn't want to bring someone i
wouldn't want to
date someone where
that could happen but maybe that's just
fear in general of the situation
sure i mean i i but i see where you're
coming from right so like
what i let me know if i i'm hearing you
correctly
so like here you are and and sometimes
your friends
like you have interactions with people
that you care about
where you end up like not being able to
give them the experience
that you really want them to have or
maybe they deserve to have
yeah i mean that's just when it comes to
games but yes yeah i mean like like you
want to care about your friends right
like you want to enrich their lives
let's put it out sure
yes and and it sounds like it sounds
kind of like premature to me to engage
in a romantic relationship if you're not
able to consistently do that
because what if you are not able to
enrich their lives
it's not my job to do that
but i i now i'm confused scar because i
thought that like
that that's that's how i feel but i
logically understand my job isn't the
fix all problem
does that make sense yeah sort of but
like i'm
now i'm confused okay no because like
yep and this is the point of
motivational interviewing oh my
[ __ ] god right so now what we're
doing is we're breaking down
all of your logical conceptions which
are no longer holding
so now you're in the question mark zone
sure
and like if we think about motivating
you to date i could give you a
thousand reasons and you would swat them
all down because you're in the no zone
and as we move from the no zone to the
yes zone what do we have to pass in the
middle
hell you're damn right which is the
question mark zone
because now you don't know
maybe you should ask someone out
because hold on a second it's not your
job to make them happy
correct but when i ask you why you don't
ask someone out you're like well when it
comes to my like
friendly relationships like i'm not able
to consistently like make them feel good
and create like positive experiences
that does sound like a weird excuse not
you mentioned that
no bro it's not a weird excuse like it
makes sense
like just like like we're training up
you're leveling your relationship skills
before you start dating someone
how is that not make sense
i think
that is just a very mechanical way of
thinking about things
i usually don't like
i when i do logic i logic stuff
robotically
but i don't actually think
completely in that regard
so help me understand how like what's
wrong with thinking logically about this
absolutely nothing but i think that it's
untrue to my own self to say that i
only think logically like that all the
time
when i present ideas to people i find it
easiest to present them
entirely logically but when i act upon
things
very rarely is it fully logical i guess
and that's something i want to make
clear because it feels like that's
maybe a little bit of a misconception
and i i completely understand why i'm
the reason that misconception exists
because of the way i i speak and the way
i communicate
can you help me understand because like
honestly bro it makes a lot of sense to
me like here's what i'm hearing
i think it makes a lot of sense but i
don't do it so like
so i don't want to come out as
disingenuous how do you
so then just please explain it like what
what about
so i'm gonna say it again okay and then
i i'd really appreciate it if you could
help me understand like what i'm missing
okay so you're working on
leveling up your relationship skill sure
before you engage in a romantic
relationship like that needs to be like
you know platinum tear oh god
let's let's let's go higher than that we
set the bar pretty low but yeah sure
okay right which
little bit of insight right there um
but but like what's wrong with like what
am i missing there because that makes
sense right like if i want to
if i want to like you know
i guess i just don't like my life being
talked about so robotically
because i i think that like i don't want
to take away
from this to be like man that guy is
really logical with everything like
like i think that like when i put myself
out that way like that
is how i i present myself and it's a
little bit
disingenuous because it's not completely
me
it's like a good example of this i don't
know how to do this um
it's like i may logically think about a
lot of scenarios and how it plays out
right but rather brian
is that my phone oh
no that's lily's phone god damn um okay
um
i think a way i can describe it
is
can i ask a question yeah
so just help us understand like i don't
think you're an all logical dude
yeah can you just fill in the
non-logical part of this
i think i logic my way up until i can
set up a framework
okay and then i just fill out the
framework
if that makes sense so i guess a good
example would be how i prepared my last
show
would be like i did
when i was doing the run of show and
breaking down the show
like the night before i it was like
all improv slash like random [ __ ] in the
middle
like i didn't fully write down like how
we're gonna do everything because i was
like [ __ ] it we could just wing this
but like uh when i present stuff i don't
present it like that i present like oh
we calculate all these we did the
[ __ ] metrics and the numbers
i converted this and i ran it through
the pythagorean theorem
i think people think that i may have
misconstrued
myself by presenting myself that way
so now it seems to me like you're
concerned about being perceived a
particular way
yes a little bit about a little bit for
the people watching
but a little bit to you because i just
don't want to come across as
disingenuous or
i don't i feel like if we're going to
try to like
talk about me i want you to know that
like that's not like
like i just want that to put that out
there okay
so how do i signal to you that i don't
think you're disingenuous
and i don't think you're a robot oh
that's fine no we're good you can keep
going
okay
i think while i was in the middle of
talking about that i was like [ __ ] it
you probably know what i mean
so like i kind of already figured it out
myself so you can keep going
okay god prank you i'm sorry
no no that's fine i think there's
something important there but we're not
going to dig into that right now
but anyway so so i'm i'm just noticing
like we could take a third stab at
motivational interviewing if you want to
but like i'm kind of
concerned a little bit about how taxed
we may be what do you think scara
i'm okay but i want to let you know that
like i have probably like
18 minutes unfortunately because i have
to go to a shoot
so i don't think that's unfortunate at
all
i think that we're given well it's
unfortunate for me
because i feel like i'd like to talk to
you more but like
uh i understand the like yeah yeah
so so if you've got a shoot i'm i'm i i
think that we've covered a lot of ground
and i also find that talking for like
longer than two hours at a stretch
tends to have people rewriting the early
part
i could see that so in my experience two
hours tends to be the limit
of like productive insight before you
start like it's like your ram capacity
and then you've got to like ride it to
the hard disk
and then you can kind of revisit so i'm
kind of curious if you've got about 18
minutes 17 minutes left
can you share with us what your
what this conversation has been like for
you and maybe like
if you've gained something what you've
gained
oh it's been nice i tend to not be able
to talk to many people who are
as ex who have your particular set of
skills i i feel like
you almost have to train to be
the level communicator at like that
you've hit
the level of communication that you've
hit like you hit like
like up here like we're talking like the
top
right um and i don't really
interact with many people that have hit
that level
especially to the point
where they can communicate to me like
this
i also think that like uh for me
uh i guess it brought
more stuff forward that i
i didn't realize i was deflecting that
hard i didn't know before going in that
i do that
but rather than saying deflecting it's
just something that like
i just put to this side because i
consider it
unproductive to focus on the negatives
and that's why
my life has never been to focus on what
i've achieved but always look toward the
present and the future
which comes at i would say
i'm i'm now learning somewhat of an
expense to myself
but i think any strategy you take is
going to come at an expense
i think that the one that i took
is like just very readily apparent here
um i
yeah um aside from that
i think
it's been fairly enlightening it's like
i'm talking to
usually when i come to these conclusions
like maybe i would have achieved this
level of clarity or this conclusion like
months from now or even years from now
uh it's usually with a conversation
for with another person like such as
yourself or i've marinated on the idea a
lot
and i've really just like got myself to
a point where
what the hell is going on um and so it's
nice that i'm able to
uh see this before earlier rather than
later
later yeah can you help me understand um
what has been enlightening about the
conversation
it's like peering into a door
that you knew
you thought you knew what was inside but
it's a little bit different than what
you originally thought like you thought
i thought that like
uh it was maybe like uh the door had
a house inside but i'm slowly starting
to realize
that the house uh it's a full damn
mansion
you know um and bigger than you expected
yeah a little bigger than i expected and
i know
i thought i knew that i locked away
behind the door
but it's a little bit more than i
originally thought
okay um so i i appreciate the
you know the the high praise in terms of
my communication skill and stuff like
that like i i think it's
um thank you very much for saying that
i don't think i would
i mean you're one of the people that
when i
i used to have this high school teacher
that would use
big words but wouldn't make me feel
small about my intelligence level
and i think she was one of the most
brilliant people i had
ever known uh she went on to do like i
want to do really good things but she
was one of my favorite teachers ever
and you remind me a lot about her in the
sense that i think
you obviously have a mastery of
vocabulary and education that your
guests do not
or i do not but you're able to kind of
talk to them in a way that doesn't make
them feel
that it doesn't feel like you're
flaunting it over them but rather you're
trying to meet them at a level where
they are understanding like
the only goal of the conversation is for
them to be
involved i should say
i need a moment to think about how i'm
going to respond to this
oh so here's my response how the [ __ ]
scarra do you think that you would not
offer something amazing in a romantic
relationship
where the [ __ ] is that
you know when you're friends because i
had heard about you
before this and i'd heard all of these
wonderful things from people who i
understand
that they are they hide me up alive yeah
boy do you have something juicy to offer
and now we get to the question of like
which one's the real you
because i think now it's my turn you're
ready
yeah okay so this is this is where you
say
like oh i may have trained a lot but i
think i think we're
in the in the same weight class when it
comes to expressing authentic
appreciation about other human beings
so here's here's what i'd say okay
to begin with you mentioned that you
know you may have gotten here on your
own if you had marinated about it
yes and i'd say that part of the reason
that this conversation has come
so far is sure i'm good at what i do
but ultimately like it depends on you
too i think the reason this conversation
came so far is because you have been
doing a lot of marinating
you are the first person all i do is
that
and i think that shows and i think it
has a lot of value
and i think that like despite whatever
education you have or don't have
you're a thinker and you're like a
critical thinker and we talked about
your intelligence as a defense mechanism
but make no mistake that it is actually
like a very powerful tool too
you're the first person that i've ever
talked to that so quickly realizes what
i'm doing to them
so even when i tell people like what i'm
gonna do to them they usually don't get
it
like it it works on them and then we
have to sit down but like you noticed
right away that like i was becoming you
and it still had its effect
and i think that like part of the reason
that you have difficulty
like i think that you're a very genuine
person i think you
bring a lot to the table i know that
there are parts that go all the way down
to the core of your being that
understand that
i think you have walked this journey of
like self-esteem and confidence and
getting to know yourself
to where you genuinely know that you
have something amazing to offer other
human beings
yes okay so
i was waiting for the resistance there
but we'll just keep go we'll just keep
going i have
confidence in parts of myself my
my self-worth is yeah yeah it's it's
it's
right so now we get to the what i'd like
to really encourage you to think about
right which is that there are parts of
yourself i just think that honestly like
it's a straight-up cognitive bias
where like like if something weird
happens in your mind where when you
start to think about romantic
relationships or not
not necessarily romantic relationships i
think it's just like
deep relationships that you care about
which don't have to be romantic
that something gets in the way of
recognizing
the value that you bring and it's not
necessarily that you don't even it maybe
recognizes the right word
it's that the value that you bring
actually this is a better word
gets contaminated by this other thing
gets contaminated by what you
think of that instinctive it's not even
what you think of the instinctive
reaction when you look at yourself in
the mirror
and then you think like i have to work
on this and all that stuff
is true and this is where we kind of get
to your adaptation like i think that
you're right
that you know you kind of said that
everyone has to grow and like everyone
has to like
adapt and that comes at a cost which is
beautifully said
damn scar you're so insightful like
people that therapists will train for
years to recognize this it took me years
to recognize
what you sort of put together in in two
hours
sit with the praise don't deflect it
awkward hard i know sit with it you take
it
[Applause]
okay now we keep going i'm not done with
you yet
i told you we're in we're in the same
weight class
so i'm you know you can authentically
praise me i'm gonna do the same to you
i'm gonna keep going here's the chaos
but but i i think i think really scar
like
you know there's some contaminant
there's something that gets in the way
of recognizing that and i i really think
that like
are you overweight probably i can't
really tell because i haven't seen you
stand up but like if you're overweight
like sure you can work on that
and this is the other thing just because
you're overweight doesn't mean that
you're
unlovable which i know logically you
understand
right i have a lot
of beautiful friends and so
they i i feel like living in l.a warps
my
sense of uh like
uh i guess self-image quite a bit
sure and something that i definitely
know happens
yep so so that's that's very logical
very neuroscientific very
psychological and at the same time this
is if there's
one thing that i would ask you to do
it's to catch yourself before you dodge
going forward to notice that the next
time you're crushing on someone
or yeah
the next time you're crushing on someone
catch yourself
and look for that contaminant look for
like the way that you wriggle
out of like not wanting to try right and
it's okay like you
you don't have to try but at least see
it
yeah i think it's a lot easier to
recognize when it gets pointed out
yep that's our goal so i definitely
think that that's my biggest takeaway
yep good that's what i would leave with
you because you don't have to fix this
overnight i'm not saying go out
and ask this person that you've been
crushing on for years
ask him out i'm not saying do that
next the next time it happens
catch yourself notice what your
adaptations are
going to do and you're right that like
you can you can only grow in one
dimension at a given time
and it's like one of these rpgs where
like in order to get like you know if
you want a min max you have to take
negative traits
and so that's what we do right as you
grow
as you become a league of legends
professional as you like you know
like do all this stuff with otv as you
value yourself and you start to put
others first like
all that kind of stuff comes at a price
and this is where like i think the next
phase of your growing is to like
you know undo some of that stuff
and start to i i know you're all for
working on yourself and that you could
be better
but like i think what you've really got
to work on is that you don't
need to be good enough to be in a
relationship
i think i logically understood that
already
but yep means you saying it does
have an impact so catch yourself because
you're not gonna that's not what you're
gonna say to yourself
the next time the opportunity for a
relationship presents itself
you're going to say to yourself that i
need to be better i need to do this i'm
not ready yet it's not ready it's not
the time there are too many variables
notice all those different things
and then maybe act another way but you
don't have to
just notice it
and then you can also say to yourself
i'm not ready yet
which is totally fine
thank you you're welcome can i give you
this one
yeah go ahead yeah one final bit of
homework because i
i know you've got to homework okay
i'm gonna give you a meditation exercise
worried about okay yeah what do you got
i'm not gonna let you slip away i see
you slipping away okay okay okay
so i i think we already talked about it
you guys can do this at home
look in the mirror and notice what you
see
notice what comes up when you look in
the mirror and just walk just look
don't judge don't change just
notice what your mind and what your
heart
produces when you look in the mirror
okay okay
your turn last words yours scaropog
i said my last words before so i just
think you might
say them again thank you i
find that it's really nice
to talk to people
and in covid it's been difficult to talk
to new people
so this has been a very enjoyable
i don't know how this is very sounding
very like
professional it's been really nice
i think
i don't know how to phrase it any better
than i have before
that's fine but i yeah i think that when
someone helps you
understand themselves better
in a way that isn't out of a destructive
act
um it's hard to give
especially in such a constructive way
it's hard to give better praise
yeah i i i think it's coming i think
what you mean to convey
i am feeling and and maybe the remainder
of it can be conveyed through a hug if
we ever meet in real life
yeah maybe you know maybe at the 2020
22 twitch con whenever it comes back
rain check range okay
take care and good luck on your show or
whatever
all right thank you thanks for coming on
scarra no thanks for having me on
okay chat score is great
i'd heard such good things and he
doesn't disappoint
man such a good dude